Blog: How to start a growth team (#6377)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/how-to-start-a-growth-team.md

---
date: 2023-07-26
title: "How to start a growth team (as an engineer)"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ['lior-neu-ner']
featuredImage: ../images/blog/experiment-hog.jpg
featuredImageType: full
category: Product growth
tags: 
  - Guides
  - Product metrics
---

Fast-growing startups are like rocket ships, and as co-founder of Google, Eric Schmidt, once said: "If you're offered a seat on a rocket ship, don't ask what seat. Just get on.". In these rocket ships, it's the job of the growth team to provide the fuel for the journey by igniting user acquisition and retention. 

> In this post, we speak to [Thomas Owers](https://www.linkedin.com/in/thomasowers/) on how he started the growth team at [Let's Do This](https://www.letsdothis.com/) (YCombinator startup, $80M in funding) and grew it to three teams – despite having no prior experience in working on a growth team!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post, we speak to [Thomas Owers](https://www.linkedin.com/in/thomasowers/) on how he started the growth team at [Let's Do This](https://www.letsdothis.com/) (a Y Combinator backed startup with $80M in funding) and grew it to three teams – despite having no prior experience in working on a growth team!
```

## Background

> Let's Do This is a marketplace for discovering and signing up for endurance events such as marathons or races. In 2020, a new VP of product joined the team. One of their new initiatives was to create a growth team focusing on user acquisition and retention. Thomas, who was working as a software engineer on another team, was intrigued by this. He previously had some experience working in SEO and marketing but not in *growth* per se. Nonetheless, he jumped at the opportunity, and after a chat with the VP of product, Thomas joined the newly formed growth team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's Do This is a marketplace for discovering and signing up for endurance events such as marathons or triathlons. 

In 2020, a new VP of product joined the team. One of their new initiatives was to create a growth team focusing on user acquisition and retention. Thomas, who was working as a software engineer, was intrigued by this. He previously had some experience working in SEO and marketing but not in *growth* per se. Nonetheless, he jumped at the opportunity, and after a chat with the VP of product, Thomas became the first member of the growth team.
```

Reviewer: Could the first sentence go in the introduction?

The team consisted of a few engineers, a product designer, and a data scientist, but no one really had any growth experience either. Their first job was to hire a growth PM to lead the team, which they soon did. However, two months after hiring this person, it was clear they weren't a good fit and were let go. Noticing a gap in the team, Thomas stepped up to become the de facto "half PM - half tech lead" of the team.

Since Thomas had no prior growth experience, his first step was figuring out what to do. To do this, he tapped into his network and had calls with growth experts at other startups.

The advice from them was consistent:

## 1. The answer is in your data

"It's all about finding the right data," Thomas was told. Taking this to heart, they built dashboards to monitor essential metrics. These dashboards tracked channels, funnels, and user flows on the website. They used these dashboards to answer questions such as:

- Where are bookings coming from? 
- What are the most common user journeys? 
- Where do users drop off in the journey? 
- What features are the most engaging for our users? 

> Once they had this data, their next focus was on finding the significant drop-offs in their user journeys and focusing on improving them. This led Thomas to the next piece of advice:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once they had this data, their next focus was on finding the significant drop-offs in their user journeys and improving them. This led Thomas to the next piece of advice:
```

## 2. Talk to your customers and build what they want

> Once they knew where the drop-offs were, the next step was figuring out why they were happening and what they could do about it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the growth team knew where the drop-offs were, the next step was figuring out why they happened and what to do about it. 
```

In the case of Let's Do This, their target metric was *number of bookings*. They noticed a large drop-off in the signup page during the booking flow and decided to investigate. They sent emails to the customers who dropped off and offered them Amazon gift cards in exchange for a 30-minute call.

> They learned from these calls that booking events like marathons is a **big deal** for their customers (they need to train for months for an event!), and they needed to be confident that the event would be right for them. Thus people would often hesitate when booking events. 

Reviewer: Any more details on what they classified as "right for them"? Distance, location, size?

> Thomas and his team then brainstormed solutions around this. They came up with features to improve trust signals on the event page, as well as adding an "event save" flow that let users save an event and receive reminders about it (without having to register).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thomas and his team brainstormed solutions to this. They came up with features to improve trust signals on the event page, as well as adding an "event save" flow that let users save an event and receive reminders about it (without having to register).
```

> ## 3. Experiment everything

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Test everything
```

Reviewer: Alt: 
- Experiment on everything
- Experiment with everything

Author: Thanks. I prefer "experiment" to "test", since Test could mean checking for bugs, which is not what they were doing.

"Experiment on everything" and "Experiment with everything" dont sit quite right with me, but I'll give it some thought as to what to change this to

Knowing what changes to make is one thing, but understanding how those changes affect your growth metrics is another. This led Thomas to the third advice he received: Experiment *everything*. By doing so, Thomas and his team were able to build up knowledge on which strategies and features have the most impact.

> During any given week, his team ran 10 or more A/B tests. Thomas created this culture of experimentation by encouraging his team to embrace a mindset of curiosity. He emphasized that failure should not be feared but rather seen as an opportunity to learn and improve. Thomas understood that not every experiment would yield positive results (and, in fact, 80% of their experiments failed!), but each one can provide valuable insights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During any given week, his team ran 10 or more A/B tests. Thomas created this culture of experimentation by encouraging his team to embrace a mindset of curiosity. He emphasized that failure should not be feared but rather seen as an opportunity to learn and improve. Thomas understood that not every experiment yields positive results (and, in fact, 80% of their experiments failed!), but each one can provide valuable insights.
```

> To ensure the team followed best practices when running experiments and [avoiding common mistakes](/blog/ab-testing-mistakes), their data scientist would review experiments before launch – often pushing back on experiments they thought would be too small or would not yield significant results or insights. They also monitored their experiment quality by measuring "experiment metrics", such as how many experiments have run, their average success rate, and average run time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure experiments followed best practices and [avoided common mistakes](/blog/ab-testing-mistakes), their data scientist reviewed experiments before launch – often pushing back on ones they thought would be too small or would not yield significant results or insights. They also monitored their experiment quality by measuring "experiment metrics", such as how many experiments have run, their average success rate, and average run time.
```

> **New to experiments and A/B tests?** Check out our [software engineer's guide to A/B testing](/blog/ab-testing-guide-for-engineers).

## Why it's essential to define your team values

Nine months after the formation of their growth team, Let's Do This was finally able to hire a PM to lead the team. In Thomas's opinion, the most impactful thing this new PM did was to create a set of team values. These values were the team's compass: guiding decisions, behaviors, and the overall culture. They helped settle debates and disagreements and enabled the team to move faster. They were especially helpful for newer coworkers who were unfamiliar with how to operate in a growth team.

> Thomas shares what their values were:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Their values were:
```

In the scenarios where data was not available or where there were deadlocks in discussions, Thomas and his team would often ship a small experiment to gather data and keep the team moving forward quickly. They realized that building and learning from a bare-bones MVP is much quicker and cheaper than having complex debates over what to build.

### 2. Everything should be an experiment

We already mentioned the benefits of experimenting everything above, and Thomas and his team anchored this into their core values. Thomas stresses that this did not mean everything needed to be an A/B test, but rather that every feature or change would require a plan consisting of the following:

- What is the hypothesis of the change?
- Who is the change targeting?
- What metrics you will you look at?
- How is the experiment going to be set up?
- How long will it run for?
- What do you plan to learn from it?
- What are the potential risks or downsides?

This way, every decision was backed by a thoughtful strategy, not just a shot in the dark. These questions ensure that every change is purposeful, targeted, measurable, and accounted for in terms of potential impact - both positive and negative.

> ### 3. Deep empathy for our customers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Deep empathy for customers
```

Finally, putting the user first is at the heart of how they build. 

> It's possible that a feature can increase your target metrics but still have a detrimental effect on your user experience. The most famous example of this is how Booking.com applied dark patterns to increase sales by using text such as "*32 customers are looking at the same hotel as you*" or "*another person is considering booking a room at this accommodation*" (They were later [fined $7.5M](https://www.gvh.hu/en/press_room/press_releases/press-releases-2020/gigantic-fine-imposed-on-booking.com-by-the-gvh) for doing this!). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible that a feature can increase your target metrics but still have a detrimental effect on your user experience. The most famous example of this is how Booking.com applied dark patterns to increase sales by using text such as "*32 customers are looking at the same hotel as you*" or "*another person is considering booking a room at this accommodation*". They were later [fined $7.5M](https://www.gvh.hu/en/press_room/press_releases/press-releases-2020/gigantic-fine-imposed-on-booking.com-by-the-gvh) for doing this!
```

---
date: 2023-07-26
title: "How to start a growth team (as an engineer)"
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ['lior-neu-ner']
featuredImage: ../images/blog/experiment-hog.jpg
featuredImageType: full
category: Product growth
tags: 
  - Guides
  - Product metrics
---

> Fast-growing startups are like rocket ships. In these rocket ships, it's the job of the growth team to provide the fuel for the journey by igniting user acquisition and retention. 

Author: ```suggestion
Fast-growing startups are like rocket ships. In these rocket ships, it's the job of the growth team to provide the fuel for the journey by igniting user acquisition. 
```

> Fast-growing startups are like rocket ships, and as co-founder of Google, Eric Schmidt, once said: "If you're offered a seat on a rocket ship, don't ask what seat. Just get on.". In these rocket ships, it's the job of the growth team to provide the fuel for the journey by igniting user acquisition and retention. 

Author: Im 50/50 whether to include this paragraph or not. Thoughts?

Reviewer: I think its fine to leave, but maybe get rid of the Eric Schmidt quote, I don't think it adds anything.

> Fast-growing startups are like rocket ships, and as co-founder of Google, Eric Schmidt, once said: "If you're offered a seat on a rocket ship, don't ask what seat. Just get on.". In these rocket ships, it's the job of the growth team to provide the fuel for the journey by igniting user acquisition and retention. 

Author: ```suggestion
Fast-growing startups are like rocket ships. In these rocket ships, it's the job of the growth team to provide the fuel for the journey by igniting user acquisition and retention. 
```

In this post, we speak to [Thomas Owers](https://www.linkedin.com/in/thomasowers/), former lead software engineer at [Let's Do This](https://www.letsdothis.com/) (a Y Combinator backed startup with $80M in funding), on how he started the company's first growth team and, upon their initial success, grew the growth org into 4 teams – despite having no prior experience in working on a growth team in the first place!

## Background

Let's Do This is a marketplace for discovering and signing up for endurance events such as marathons or triathlons. 

> In 2020, a new VP of product joined the team. One of their new initiatives was to create a growth team focusing on user acquisition and retention. Thomas was intrigued by this. He previously had some experience working in SEO and marketing but not in *growth* per se. Nonetheless, he jumped at the opportunity, and after a chat with the VP of product, Thomas became the first member of the growth team.

Author: ```suggestion
In 2020, Let's Do This decided to create a growth team focusing on user acquisition and retention. Thomas was intrigued by this, although he did not have any growth experience. Nonetheless, he jumped at the opportunity, and after a chat with the VP of product, Thomas became the first member of the growth team.
```

> The team consisted of a few engineers, a product designer, and a data scientist, but no one had any growth experience either. Their first job was to hire a growth PM to lead the team, which they soon did. However, two months after hiring this person, it was clear they weren't a good fit and were let go. Noticing a gap in the team, Thomas stepped up to become the de facto "half PM - half tech lead" of the team.

Author: ```suggestion
The team consisted of a few engineers, a product designer, and a data scientist – but no one had any growth experience either. Their first job was to hire a growth PM to lead the team, which they soon did. However, two months after hiring this person, it was clear they weren't a good fit and were let go. Noticing a gap in the team, Thomas stepped up to become the de facto "half PM - half tech lead" of the team.
```

> The team consisted of a few engineers, a product designer, and a data scientist, but no one really had any growth experience. Their first job was to hire a growth PM to lead the team, which they soon did. However, two months after hiring this person, it was clear they weren't a good fit and were let go. Noticing a gap in the team, Thomas stepped up to become the de facto "half PM - half tech lead" of the team.

Author: ```suggestion
The team consisted of a few engineers, a product designer, and a data scientist, but no one had any growth experience either. Their first job was to hire a growth PM to lead the team, which they soon did. However, two months after hiring this person, it was clear they weren't a good fit and were let go. Noticing a gap in the team, Thomas stepped up to become the de facto "half PM - half tech lead" of the team.
```

> The team consisted of a few engineers, a product designer, and a data scientist, but no one really had any growth experience either. Their first job was to hire a growth PM to lead the team, which they soon did. However, two months after hiring this person, it was clear they weren't a good fit and were let go. Noticing a gap in the team, Thomas stepped up to become the de facto "half PM - half tech lead" of the team.

Author: ```suggestion
The team consisted of a few engineers, a product designer, and a data scientist, but no one really had any growth experience. Their first job was to hire a growth PM to lead the team, which they soon did. However, two months after hiring this person, it was clear they weren't a good fit and were let go. Noticing a gap in the team, Thomas stepped up to become the de facto "half PM - half tech lead" of the team.
```

> Since Thomas had no prior growth experience, his first step was figuring out what to do. To do this, he tapped into his network and had calls with growth experts at other startups.
> 
> The advice from them was consistent:

Author: ```suggestion
His first step was figuring out what to do. To do this, he tapped into his network and had calls with growth experts at other startups. The advice from them was consistent:
```

> "It's all about finding the right data," Thomas was told. Taking this to heart, they built dashboards to monitor essential metrics. These dashboards tracked channels, funnels, and user flows on the website. They used these dashboards to answer questions such as:

Author: ```suggestion
"It's all about finding the right data," Thomas was told. Taking this to heart, they built dashboards to monitor essential metrics, funnels, and user flows. They used these dashboards to answer questions such as:
```

- Where are bookings coming from? 
- What are the most common user journeys? 
- Where do users drop off in the journey? 
- What features are the most engaging for our users? 

> Once they had this data, their next focus was on finding the significant drop-offs in their user journeys and improving them. This led Thomas to the next piece of advice:

Author: ```suggestion
Once they had this data, their next focus was on finding the significant drop-offs and improving them. This led Thomas to the next piece of advice:
```

## 2. Talk to your customers and build what they want

Once the growth team knew where the drop-offs were, the next step was figuring out why they happened and what to do about it. 

> In the case of Let's Do This, their target metric was *number of bookings*. They noticed a large drop-off in the signup page during the booking flow and decided to investigate. They sent emails to the customers who dropped off and offered them Amazon gift cards in exchange for a 30-minute call.

Author: ```suggestion
In the case of Let's Do This, their target metric was *number of bookings*. They noticed a large drop-off during the booking flow and decided to investigate. They sent emails to the customers who dropped off and offered them Amazon gift cards in exchange for a 30-minute call.
```

> They learned from these calls that booking events like marathons is a **big deal** for their customers – they train for months for it! So they need to be confident that the event would be right for them, and this is why people would often hesitate when booking events. 

Author: ```suggestion
They learned that booking events like marathons is a **big deal** for their customers – they train for months for it! So they need to be confident that the event would be right for them, and this is why people would often hesitate when booking events. 
```

> Thomas and his team brainstormed solutions to this. They came up with features to improve trust signals on the event page, as well as adding an "event save" flow that let users save an event and receive reminders about it (without having to register).

Author: ```suggestion
Thomas and his team brainstormed solutions. They came up with features to improve trust signals on the event page, as well as adding an "event save" flow that let users save an event and receive reminders about it (without having to register).
```

> They learned from these calls that booking events like marathons is a **big deal** for their customers as they need to train for months before an event. They needed to be confident that the event would be right for them. Thus people would often hesitate when booking events. 

Author: ```suggestion
They learned from these calls that booking events like marathons is a **big deal** for their customers – they train for months for it! So they need to be confident that the event would be right for them, and this is why people would often hesitate when booking events. 
```

Thomas and his team brainstormed solutions to this. They came up with features to improve trust signals on the event page, as well as adding an "event save" flow that let users save an event and receive reminders about it (without having to register).

## 3. Experiment everything

> Knowing what changes to make is one thing, but understanding how those changes affect your growth metrics is another. This led Thomas to the third piece of advice he received: Experiment *everything*. By doing so, Thomas and his team were able to build up knowledge on which strategies and features had the most impact.

Author: ```suggestion
Knowing what changes to make is one thing, but understanding how those changes affect your metrics is another. This led Thomas to the third piece of advice he received: Experiment *everything*. By doing so, Thomas and his team were able to build up knowledge on which strategies and features had the most impact.
```

> During any given week, his team ran 10 or more A/B tests. Thomas created this culture of experimentation by encouraging his team to embrace a mindset of curiosity. He emphasized that failure should not be feared but rather seen as an opportunity to learn and improve. Thomas understood that not every experiment yields positive results (and, in fact, 80% of their experiments failed!), but each one can provide valuable insights.

Author: ```suggestion
During any given week, his team ran 10 or more A/B tests. Thomas created this culture of experimentation by encouraging his team to embrace a mindset of curiosity. He emphasized that **failure should not be feared but rather seen as an opportunity to learn and improve** – in fact, 80% of their experiments failed! But each one provided valuable insights.
```

> To ensure experiments followed best practices and [avoided common mistakes](/blog/ab-testing-mistakes), their data scientist reviewed experiments before launch – often pushing back on ones they thought would be too small or would not yield significant results or insights. They also monitored their experiment quality by measuring "experiment metrics", such as how many experiments have run, their average success rate, and average run time.

Author: ```suggestion
To ensure experiments followed best practices and [avoided common mistakes](/blog/ab-testing-mistakes), their data scientist reviewed each experiment before launch – often pushing back on ones they thought would be too small or not yield significant insights. They also monitored their experiment quality by measuring "experiment metrics", such as how many experiments have run, their average success rate, and average run time.
```

> **New to experiments and A/B tests?** Check out our [software engineer's guide to A/B testing](/blog/ab-testing-guide-for-engineers).

## Why it's essential to define your team values

Nine months after the formation of their growth team, Let's Do This was finally able to hire a PM to lead the team. In Thomas's opinion, the most impactful thing this new PM did was to create a set of team values. These values were the team's compass: guiding decisions, behaviors, and the overall culture. They helped settle debates and disagreements and enabled the team to move faster. They were especially helpful for newer coworkers who were unfamiliar with how to operate in a growth team.

Thomas shares what their values were:

### 1. Data over debate

By focusing on hard numbers and concrete evidence, the team could set aside biases and disagreements, leading to more effective strategies and solutions.

> In the scenarios where data was not available or where there were deadlocks in discussions, Thomas and his team would often ship a small experiment to gather data and keep the team moving forward quickly. They realized that building and learning from a bare-bones MVP is much quicker and cheaper than having complex debates over what to build.

Author: ```suggestion
In the scenarios where data was not available, Thomas and his team would often ship a small experiment to gather data and keep the team moving forward quickly. They realized that building and learning from a bare-bones MVP is much quicker and cheaper than having complex debates over what to build.
```

### 2. Everything should be an experiment

We already mentioned the benefits of experimenting everything above, and Thomas and his team anchored this into their core values. Thomas stresses that this did not mean everything needed to be an A/B test, but rather that every feature or change would require a plan consisting of the following:

- What is the hypothesis of the change?
- Who is the change targeting?
- What metrics you will you look at?
- How is the experiment going to be set up?
- How long will it run for?
- What do you plan to learn from it?
- What are the potential risks or downsides?

> This way, every decision was backed by a thoughtful strategy, not just a shot in the dark. These questions ensure that every change is purposeful, targeted, measurable, and accounted for in terms of potential impact - both positive and negative.

Author: ```suggestion
This way, every decision was backed by a thoughtful strategy, and not just a shot in the dark. 
```

### 3. Deep empathy for customers

Finally, putting the user first is at the heart of how they build. 

> It's possible that a feature can increase your target metrics but still have a detrimental effect on your user experience. The most famous example of this is how Booking.com applied dark patterns to increase sales by using text such as "*32 customers are looking at the same hotel as you*" or "*another person is considering booking a room at this accommodation*". They were later [fined $7.5M](https://www.gvh.hu/en/press_room/press_releases/press-releases-2020/gigantic-fine-imposed-on-booking.com-by-the-gvh) for doing this!

Author: ```suggestion
It's possible that a feature can increase your target metrics but still have a negative effect on your user experience. The most famous example of this is how Booking.com applied dark patterns to increase sales by using text such as "*32 customers are looking at the same hotel as you*" or "*another person is considering booking a room at this accommodation*". They were later [fined $7.5M](https://www.gvh.hu/en/press_room/press_releases/press-releases-2020/gigantic-fine-imposed-on-booking.com-by-the-gvh) for doing this!
```

> By maintaining deep empathy for their customers, their team avoids such pitfalls. It empowers them to consider the customer's experience and satisfaction above all else, even when it might be easier or more profitable in the short term to do otherwise.

Author: ```suggestion
By putting their customer experience first, Let's Do This avoids such pitfalls – even if it means sacrificing sacrificing short term gains in their key metrics.
```

## Thomas's parting advice to growth engineers: Make your code changes as small as possible

> The biggest difference between how software engineers operate on growth teams versus other teams is the size of their changes and the speed at which they move. Growth engineering is all about learning quickly and iterating based on those insights. 
> 
> It's this mindset change that Thomas feels is the most important for growth engineers to have. He often repeated the following advice to his engineers:

Author: ```suggestion
Growth engineering is all about learning quickly and iterating based on your findings. It's this mindset that Thomas feels is the most important for growth engineers to have. 

He often repeated the following advice to his engineers:
```

---

> date: 2023-07-26

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2023-08-08
```

> title: "How to start a growth team (as an engineer)"

Author: I gave some thought to a new title, but I still really like this one. It's quite eye catching IMO

rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ['lior-neu-ner']

> featuredImage: ../images/blog/experiment-hog.jpg

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-blog-at-desk.png
```

featuredImageType: full
category: Product growth
tags: 
  - Guides
  - Product metrics
---
In this post, we speak to [Thomas Owers](https://www.linkedin.com/in/thomasowers/), former lead software engineer at [Let's Do This](https://www.letsdothis.com/) – a Y Combinator backed startup with $80M in funding. 

He shares how he started the company's first growth team, despite having no previous experience in working on growth! His team became so successful that they later grew the growth org into 4 different teams.

> We'll dive into Thomas's story on how he navigated this unfamiliar territory, and his advice for engineers who are new to growth.

Reviewer 2: If the info is available, it would be useful to add the timescale. Delete / tweak that bit if not.

> 
> ## Background
> 
> Let's Do This is a marketplace for discovering and signing up for endurance events such as marathons or triathlons. 
> 
> In 2021, Let's Do This decided to create a growth team focusing on user acquisition and retention. Although he did not have any growth experience, this intrigued Thomas and he jumped at the opportunity to join the team!
> 
> The team did not have a PM either, so Thomas stepped up to become the de facto "half PM - half tech lead" of the team.
> 
> His first step was figuring out what to do, and so he had calls with growth experts at other startups. The advice from them was consistent:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## 1. The answer is in your data

"It's all about finding the right data," Thomas was told. Taking this to heart, they built dashboards to monitor essential metrics, funnels, and user flows. They used these to answer questions such as:

- Where are bookings coming from? 
- What are the most common user journeys? 
- Where do users drop off in the journey? 
- What features are the most engaging for our users? 

Once they had this data, their next focus was on finding the significant drop-offs and improving them. This led Thomas to the next piece of advice:

> ## 2. Talk to your customers and build what they need

Reviewer 2: Tweaked for emphasis

Thomas and his team brainstormed solutions. Eventually, they built features to improve trust signals and this significantly increased their bookings!

## 3. Experiment everything

Knowing what changes to make is one thing, but understanding how those changes affect your metrics is another. This led Thomas to the third piece of advice he received: Experiment *everything*. Each experiment builds knowledge on which strategies and features have the most impact.

For this reason, Thomas and his team ran 10 or more A/B tests each week! 

## 4. Embrace failure

The ability to *experiment everything* is only possible if each engineer is empowered to make mistakes. 

Thomas embedded this into their team culture by emphasizing that **an experiment is not a failure if it doesn't produce the results you were hoping for.**. Instead, an experiment is only a failure if the team didn't learn anything from it.

This created a safe space for engineers to explore, and ultimately resulted in a more innovative team.

> ## 5. Check yourself before you wreck yourself

Author: Is this heading trying too hard?

Reviewer: I think it's fine 😄

Thomas shares their values:

### Data over debate

By focusing on hard numbers and concrete evidence, you can set aside biases and focus on effective solutions.

If data was not available, Thomas and his team would often ship a small experiment to gather data and keep the team moving forward. They realized that building and learning from a bare-bones MVP is much quicker than having frustrating debates over what to build.

### Everything should be an experiment

We already mentioned the benefits of experimenting everything, and Thomas and his team anchored this into their values. Thomas stresses that this did not mean everything needed to be an A/B test, but rather that every feature or change should have a plan:

- What is the hypothesis of the change?
- Who is the change targeting?
- What metrics you will you look at?
- How is the experiment going to be set up?
- How long will it run for?
- What do you plan to learn from it?
- What are the potential risks or downsides?

This way, every decision was backed by a thoughtful strategy – not just a shot in the dark. 

> ### Deep empathy for customers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### iii) Deep empathy for customers
```

It's possible to achieve your goal yet harm your user experience. The most famous example of this is from **Booking.com**. They increased sales by showing *anxiety-inducing* messages – such as "*32 customers are looking at the same hotel as you*" and "*another person is considering booking a room at this accommodation*". Thankfully, they stopped after they were [fined $7.5M](https://www.gvh.hu/en/press_room/press_releases/press-releases-2020/gigantic-fine-imposed-on-booking.com-by-the-gvh)!

Let's Do This avoid such pitfalls by putting their users at the heart of how they build – even if it means sacrificing short-term gains.

## Thomas's parting advice to growth engineers: Make your code changes as small as possible

> Growth engineering is all about learning quickly and iterating based on your findings. It's this mindset that Thomas feels is the most important for growth engineers to have. 
> 
> He often repeated the following advice to his engineers:
> 
> > "**80% of your tests will fail, so you need to get comfortable knowing your code will be deleted**. 
> > 
> > Applying this in practice means reducing the scope of your changes *while still* maximizing insights:
> >
> > For example, an engineer may scope a project and say it will take 2 weeks. It's important to challenge that and frame the question differently: Instead of asking 'How long will it take?', ask 'What can you do in only 1 week? 3 days? Half a day?". Often you'll find that you can reduce the scope of the change while still being able to validate your hypothesis".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Growth engineering is all about learning quickly and iterating based on your findings. 

In Thomas' view, good growth engineers "need to get comfortable knowing their code will be deleted" because "80% of your tests will fail."

Applying this in practice means reducing the scope of your changes *while still* maximizing insights:

"An engineer may scope a project and say it will take 2 weeks. It's important to challenge that and frame the question differently.

"Instead of asking 'How long will it take?', ask 'What can you do in only 1 week? 3 days? Half a day?'. Often you'll find that you can reduce the scope of the change while still being able to validate your hypothesis".
```

## Further reading

> - [When and how to run group-targeted A/B tests](/blog/running-group-targeted-ab-tests)
> - [How to measure product engagement](/blog/how-to-measure-product-engagement)
> - [The most useful product health metrics](/blog/product-health-metrics)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [When and how to run group-targeted A/B tests](/blog/running-group-targeted-ab-tests)
- [What is a growth engineer? (And why they're awesome)](/blog/what-is-a-growth-engineer)
- [The most useful product health metrics](/blog/product-health-metrics)
```
